
// eax = 0x01 edx
0_B FPU Floating Point Unit On-Chip. The processor contains an x87 FPU.
1_B VME Virtual 8086 Mode Enhancements. Virtual 8086 mode enhancements, including CR4.VME for controlling the feature, CR4.PVI for protected mode virtual interrupts, software interrupt indirection, expansion of the TSS with the software indirection bitmap, and EFLAGS.VIF and EFLAGS.VIP flags.
2_B DE Debugging Extensions. Support for I/O breakpoints, including CR4.DE for controlling the feature, and optional trapping of accesses to DR4 and DR5.
3_B PSE Page Size Extension. Large pages of size 4 MByte are supported, including CR4.PSE for controlling the feature, the defined dirty bit in PDE (Page Directory Entries), optional reserved bit trapping in CR3, PDEs, and PTEs.
4_B TSC Time Stamp Counter. The RDTSC instruction is supported, including CR4.TSD for controlling privilege.
5_B MSR Model Specific Registers RDMSR and WRMSR Instructions. The RDMSR and WRMSR instructions are supported. Some of the MSRs are implementation dependent.
6_B PAE Physical Address Extension. Physical addresses greater than 32 bits are supported: extended page table entry formats, an extra level in the page translation tables is defined, 2-MByte pages are supported instead of 4 Mbyte pages if PAE bit is 1.
7_B MCE Machine Check Exception. Exception 18 is defined for Machine Checks, including CR4.MCE for controlling the feature. This feature does not define the model-specific implementations of machine-check error logging, reporting, and processor shutdowns. Machine Check exception handlers may have to depend on processor version to do model specific processing of the exception, or test for the presence of the Machine Check feature.
8_B CX8 CMPXCHG8B Instruction. The compare-and-exchange 8 bytes (64 bits) instruction is supported (implicitly locked and atomic).
9_B APIC APIC On-Chip. The processor contains an Advanced Programmable Interrupt Controller (APIC), responding to memory mapped commands in the physical address range FFFE0000H to FFFE0FFFH (by default - some processors permit the APIC to be relocated).
10_B Reserved Reserved
11_B SEP SYSENTER and SYSEXIT Instructions. The SYSENTER and SYSEXIT and associated MSRs are supported.
12_B MTRR Memory Type Range Registers. MTRRs are supported. The MTRRcap MSR contains feature bits that describe what memory types are supported, how many variable MTRRs are supported, and whether fixed MTRRs are supported.
13_B PGE Page Global Bit. The global bit is supported in paging-structure entries that map a page, indicating TLB entries that are common to different processes and need not be flushed. The CR4.PGE bit controls this feature.
14_B MCA Machine Check Architecture. The Machine Check Architecture, which provides a compatible mechanism for error reporting in P6 family, Pentium 4, Intel Xeon processors, and future processors, is supported. The MCG_CAP MSR contains feature bits describing how many banks of error reporting MSRs are supported.
15_B CMOV Conditional Move Instructions. The conditional move instruction CMOV is supported. In addition, if x87 FPU is present as indicated by the CPUID.FPU feature bit, then the FCOMI and FCMOV instructions are supported
16_B PAT Page Attribute Table. Page Attribute Table is supported. This feature augments the Memory Type Range Registers (MTRRs), allowing an operating system to specify attributes of memory accessed through a linear address on a 4KB granularity.
17_B PSE-36 36-Bit Page Size Extension. 4-MByte pages addressing physical memory beyond 4 GBytes are supported with 32-bit paging. This feature indicates that upper bits of the physical address of a 4-MByte page are encoded in bits 20:13 of the page-directory entry. Such physical addresses are limited by MAXPHYADDR and may be up to 40 bits in size.
18_B PSN Processor Serial Number. The processor supports the 96-bit processor identification number feature and the feature is enabled.
19_B CLFSH CLFLUSH Instruction. CLFLUSH Instruction is supported.
20_B Reserved Reserved
21_B DS Debug Store. The processor supports the ability to write debug information into a memory resident buffer. This feature is used by the branch trace store (BTS) and precise event-based sampling (PEBS) facilities (see Chapter 23, “Introduction to Virtual-Machine Extensions,” in the Intel® 64 and IA-32 Architectures Software Developer’s Manual, Volume 3C).
22_B ACPI Thermal Monitor and Software Controlled Clock Facilities. The processor implements internal MSRs that allow processor temperature to be monitored and processor performance to be modulated in predefined duty cycles under software control.
23_B MMX Intel MMX Technology. The processor supports the Intel MMX technology.
24_B FXSR FXSAVE and FXRSTOR Instructions. The FXSAVE and FXRSTOR instructions are supported for fast save and restore of the floating point context. Presence of this bit also indicates that CR4.OSFXSR is available for an operating system to indicate that it supports the FXSAVE and FXRSTOR instructions.
25_B SSE SSE. The processor supports the SSE extensions.
26_B SSE2 SSE2. The processor supports the SSE2 extensions.
27_B SS Self Snoop. The processor supports the management of conflicting memory types by performing a snoop of its own cache structure for transactions issued to the bus.
28_B HTT Max APIC IDs reserved field is Valid. A value of 0 for HTT indicates there is only a single logical processor in the package and software should assume only a single APIC ID is reserved. A value of 1 for HTT indicates the value in CPUID.1.EBX[23:16] (the Maximum number of addressable IDs for logical processors in this package) is valid for the package.
29_B TM Thermal Monitor. The processor implements the thermal monitor automatic thermal control circuitry (TCC).
30_B Reserved Reserved
31_B PBE Pending Break Enable. The processor supports the use of the FERR#/PBE# pin when the processor is in the stop-clock state (STPCLK# is asserted) to signal the processor that an interrupt is pending and that the processor should return to normal operation to handle the interrupt. Bit 10 (PBE enable) in the IA32_MISC_ENABLE MSR enables this capability.